---
title: "Tokyo Triptych"
date: 2018-05-10T02:09:56-07:00
draft: false
categories: ["fiction"]
series: ["The Saga of Aspen & Acuity"]
---

## Intro

> *I write for no one;*  
> *certainly not a single ghost,*  
> *just me, no one.*

THE DREAMREADER is the sole speaking role, has no gender, and exhibits
an aura of calm collectedness directed towards the future. They always
are clothed in white and are wearing dark black teashade sunglasses.  

***

## Scene 1: Okina Ringo

### Setting

*A warm stage with accents of light red light. Images of swirling cherry
blossoms should be projected on the background. A cherry tree, or
representation of it, is at the front left of the stage.* THE
DREAMREADER *is in the center of the stage. They are holding a red apple
in their hand. Various* FESTIVAL GOERS *are dressed neatly and are
crossing the stage, as if the stage was a busy park. They may be
chatting idly as they walk, making* THE DREAMREADER *raise their voice a
little to be heard over the din.*

DREAMREADER: It was spring in Brooklyn. I was in civilized attire, coat,
waistcoat, collar, everything minus the gloves and tea. So, not
civilized. Tea is the essence of civilization, gloves even more so. Tea
is an internal cleanser; it rids one of emotional attachment and leaves
only external framework. Gloves are an external cleanser; they prevent
one from forming an emotional attachment in the first place. I had
neither safeguard. And I have neither now, which should be obvious. If I
had them I wouldn’t be talking to you. Instead, all I have—  
  
THE DREAMREADER *tosses the apple into the air to about eye level and
catches it.*  

DREAMREADER: —is this fucking apple. How civilized. But I digress. It
was spring in Brooklyn. 63 degrees. The cherry trees were at the fullest
on the East Coast. This was the last time I’d see the cherry blossoms on
the East Coast. I may like the chilly, I-don’t-care-about-you attitude
of New York, but I had a different commitment. Siempre soy un angelenx.
Los Angeles is filled with golden skies and golden butterflies. I like
the Golden State. I like gold.  

*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Since it was my last day out and about in New York I had to
see the cherry blossoms. I wanted to strut around in confidence amongst
the trees, knowing that my prowess of understanding them was superior to
the obliviousness and plain ignorance of those who also came to Sakura
Matsuri. That naivety wasn’t a necessary condition of the sprawling
metropolis of under- ground fondness and the towers to the sky that
dominated the empire state of mind. It was simple human nature. Well,
it’s more complicated than that. Let me tell you about it, yes?  
  
*Pause, as if waiting for an answer that will never come.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*rocks forwards and backwards, before continuing with a
lecture-like tone, using hand gestures*) The entire concept of human
nature is a stretch. It’s pretty fucking prescriptivist. Not empirical
at all. It favors ideology, not truth, and that ideology in turn tends
to favor people whose skin is any shade darker than transparent, think
4Chan is the best thing that ever happened to this earth, and whose
phones’ immediate suggestion to the question “What is this about?” is
“Ethics in gaming journalism.” Those who have ruined all hope of a
decent future, those whose ultimate allegiance is not to any one
party–fuck the Party–nor to any one ideology, paradoxically, but to the
weakness of their own will, their insecurity of their ontology, their
doubting of the seemingly necessary right to assert themselves onto
other human beings. I could go on. The point is, the idea of human
nature favors straight cis white men. You get this.  
  
*Brief pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Now I don’t want you to think I don’t believe there aren’t
ontological properties of humans. I just want to distinguish those from
everyday human nature. You see, I’ve found that a lot of things that we
think mean something actually objectively mean something completely
different, if they even exist at all. The System—with a big ‘S’— makes
the rest up. It reifies ideas. The System is a pervasive motherfucker in
that way. Sometimes it’s hard to tell what’s just bourgeois propaganda
and what’s actually the truth. Take Big Pharma, for example. We both
know that medicine is empirical, and that the pharmaceutical-industrial
complex has pulled one on us in the past. So where do you draw the line
between sound science and profiteering? This is why I don’t have any
respect for medical doctors. A Ph.D. is harder anyways. Anyway, the
System likes to keep us in a narrow window of acceptable topics and
encourage infighting within those topics. We end up with a lot of very
ignorant people that think they know everything, or even people that
think not knowing anything is a good thing or God’s gift or in
opposition to the (*air quotes*) “matriarchy” or whatever. This knows no
geographical boundaries.  
  
*Pause, as if to let the information sink in.*  
  
DREAMREADER: This reminds me of a story. Not really a story, but a
metaphor, a cinematic image, really. Imagine this.  
  
*The stage goes dark and a single spotlight focuses on* THE DREAMREADER

DREAMREADER: *One,* (THE DREAMREADER *holds up a finger*) you are in a
little boat, floating on a quiet sea. *Two*, (THE DREAMREADER *holds up
a second finger*) you look down, and in the water you see the peak of a
volcano thrusting up from the ocean floor. *Three*, (THE DREAMREADER
*holds up a third finger*) the peak seems pretty close to the water’s
surface, but just how close you cannot tell. *Four*, (THE DREAMREADER
*holds up a fourth finger*) this is because the hyper-transparency of
the water interferes with the perception of distance.  

*The stage returns to normal*

DREAMREADER: I feel this growing sensation. It’s so...familiar. It’s a
word that slips out from your thoughts, the place where you know you
left your keys but you can’t actually identify the place specifically.
It’s a part of my psyche, a part of me as an individual. The clearer it
is, the harder it is to identify.  

*Pause*  

DREAMREADER: Most people don’t do anything to combat this building
violence, breakdown, and alienation inside them.  

DREAMREADER: These sakura viewers are no different. I was separate from
them. At the very least I could contextualize what was going on and give
it a more accurate analysis. But regardless of who was right or wrong it
objectively was a very nice day to strut around. It was 63 degrees after
all. Remember, 63 degrees is always a good temperature for things to
happen. Anyway, I made my way around the gardens that hosted the trees.
It was pretty crowded; 24 million people in a metro area will do that to
a Sunday walk. I eventually went up the hill that filtered out the
crowds and found where they were selling concessions. There was tea. I
bought some. I drank it all. There was some sweets wrapped in an oak
leaf. I bought some. I ate them all. I found a pottery stand manned by
several generations of a Japanese family. I...  
  
*Long pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: I’m going to let you in on a secret before we go on. I’m
called the Dreamreader because I now live at the End of the World. I see
wispy, warm, golden dreams that emanate from the skulls of people’s
souls. (*brief pause*) I really shouldn’t have told you this. (*laughs*)
That’s what I get for not wearing gloves.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: I found a pottery stand manned by several generations of a
Japanese family. That was when the golden butterflies began to appear.  
  
*Pause, as if* THE DREAMREADER *realizes they’ve made a grave mistake.*
  
DREAMREADER: (*hurriedly*) I need to go.  
  
THE DREAMREADER *walks off stage to the left.*  
  
### End Scene One
  
***

## Scene Two: Tami Takitani

### Setting

*A neutral stage with accents of light blue light. The picture “Blue
Pond” by Kent Shiraishi should be projected on the background.* TAMI
TAKITANI *and*bTAJI TAKITANI *are standing on the back right of the
stage. There is a simple black table standing at the front left of the
stage with two sake cups on it.* THE DREAMREADER *is in the center of
the stage. They have a single sake cup in their hand.*  
  
DREAMREADER: There were three of them.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: At the pottery table. There were three sake cups, pale sky
blue on pottery white with the shapes of matte black mountains drawn
artfully on top.  
  
*Pause, contemplatively.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Only three.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*matter-of-factly*) Well, there was probably a fourth
somewhere. I didn’t know where. It was long gone before it was 63
degrees in New York City, when I strutted over the expanse of pottery
that lay on the tables stretched on the grass between the cherry
blossoms, down the way from containers of tea and fine clothes and
sakura blossom sweets wrapped in leaves.  
  
*Pause*
  
DREAMREADER: (*slightly concerned and apologetic*) But you’ve heard this
before, right?  
  
*Pause, as if waiting for an answer that will never come.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*“normally”*) I’m sorry. Something changed since the last
time I saw you. I think that’s the way friends get when they don’t see
each other for a while. I guess we’re friends, then. That’s a weird
concept for me. Social interaction isn’t my best skill.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Anyway, the three cups were the ones on the table, and I
liked them. I also liked the silver-haired person that watched over
them. That person had a British accent. I was pretty sure it was fake.
There was no way it was real. But that didn’t concern me, although it
gave me a weird feeling. I bought the first two cups first, easily. I
said they were pretty, in Japanese, anxiously. I then hovered over that
table, looking at the silver-haired person, then the table, then the
silver-haired person. I then found the third cup. And bought it. The
silver-haired person told the artisan, their mother, that I had bought
all three. She was excited. I then told her that I loved them. In
anxious Japanese again. She was excited. I hovered around some more,
figuring it was socially acceptable since I spent a good amount of money
here. I ended up getting the silver-haired person’s contact information,
along with their mother’s, as a cover. I did like the silver-haired
person, after all. Very quickly after I realized I was incredibly
hungry. I triumphantly strutted off. I thought I heard the sound of a
bird winding itself up before singing its song as I left. Citizen
Wind-Up Bird. That’s who I’d be if I told the person with the silver
hair what I heard.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: I didn’t get much to eat after that. But I was okay. I
don’t eat much. I hovered around Brooklyn some more, got coffee, hovered
some more, and got on the subway when it was dark. I clutched the paper
bag that held the cups the entire way.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: A week later I boarded a commuter train to Manhattan. I had
that same air of confidence as I did before. I didn’t know if this was a
date or not, but I knew I would succeed regardless. But something was
off. Something was different. I ran my fingers across the handle of my
penknife all the way there. I didn’t know why I decided to bring it. I
just knew the future required it. The future is a funny thing. I don’t
concern myself with what could be. I concern myself with what will be.
That’s subjective, I know. But it’s me. And I’m the only one here now.
That’s acceptable. Of course, here and now is a funny thing too. I don’t
like it. People who are concerned with the here and now have no regard
for consequences. No regard for how things actually are, funnily enough.
Who needs the here and now, the individual dot on a chart when you can
have the entire smooth curve? I hope you’re not offended. This is just
the way things are, even if you’re a here and now person. (*awkwardly*)
Accept it, friend.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Back to New York. I was anxious the entire way. I arrived
at a bookstore, Kinokuniya, to be precise, on the Avenue of the
Americas. Kinokuniya is the land of fountain pens and books by
department chairs. I felt like a victor then. I came, I saw, I would
conquer. I met the silver-haired person as they walked through a door
with an umbrella and walked upstairs to pick out a bento box.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: I must admit the next part did not go according to plan.
That upsets me to this day. My plans are sacred. (*takes a deep breath*)
I have a habit of talking too much. I would compare it to what’s going
on here, but that’s not fair to you, my friend. I respect you. I know
you can’t talk, so I do the talking for us. But this conversation with
the silver-haired person was too one-sided. I tried to balance it out. I
failed. I remained anxious, all the way to the subway station where I
dropped them off. I should have asked if I could hug them. We both
needed it.  
  
*Pause, regretfully.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Three days later I packed up the sake cups in a box and
shipped them off to the City of Angeles. That was the last time I saw
the silver-haired person. The last time I talked to them.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: The artisan’s name was Tami Takitani. I wondered if she had
made three sake cups on purpose, as a symbolic emptiness and
uncomfortableness with the way things were. A cup each for the System’s
unity, balance, and pragmatism, where I wanted a cup for my own
tripartite. I wanted one each of equality, solidarity, and liberty.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: Now that I’m with you, my friend, I’m thinking— maybe the
three cups stood for Tami Takitani, Taji Takitani,—the person with the
silver hair— and me. Or us. You and I are starting to grow inseparable,
I’ve realized. My memories are your senses. That’s what happens when I
haven’t had tea or worn gloves. Perhaps had there been a fourth one,
there would be a complete relational set, or a fourth paradigm for life
no one knew because no one had possession of the fourth cup.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: I never bought more pottery from Tami Takitani, although I
wanted to. Such beautiful work. But if I had I would have bought either
four pieces, two pieces, or one.  
  
*Pause.* TAMI TAKITANI *and* TAJI TAKITANI *disappear from the stage.*

DREAMREADER: Not three.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: You know, somedays I wonder whether Taji Takitani would
have looked good in a bikini. And somedays I wonder if I only care for
those most similar to me. That’s a selfish trait. A destructive one. If
it’s true. But when someone with your personality type, gender identity,
someone who talks about how similar you two are and how you both had the
same experience of figuring out what you felt about them, sends you a
picture of themselves wrapped in a towel fresh out of the shower, you
can’t help it. You can’t help falling in love with them, and falling out
of love with the person you know you will spend eternity with. I did
actually fall in love with them–not Taji Takitani, mind you, another
them. How could I not? A singular vision of the future is a very
attractive notion. But I’ve come to find that I fall in love with a lot
of people. It’s a strange kind of love. I certainly platonically love a
lot of people, but this love is somewhere in between platonic and
romantic. It makes me want to be alone, and not deal with this, because
surely the people I have this special kind of love for can never return
the feeling. They can’t comprehend it. It’s infinite, and they’d come to
understand that they couldn’t do the things that I would be willing to
do for them. And then they’d leave. 

DREAMREADER: (*singing “Norwegian Wood”*):  
> *And when I awoke I was alone*  
> *This bird has flown*  
> *So I lit a fire*  
> *Isn’t it good Norwegian Wood?*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*laughs*) Look at me, talking about fucking love! How
ridiculous a notion. My emotions are showing, how embarrassing! We’re so
caught up in this notion of trueness and universality and intrinsicness
that we fail to notice the distinction between love–between how language
represents it– and correspondence to reality. Love is being a cunning
linguist, so to speak. Love is both a choice and a bourgeois emotion.
Being in love with someone is the bourgeois emotion. It sucks us into
wage slavery, dulls our intuitions so we don’t see the truth with a
capital T. The bourgeoisie is anti-intellectual. Thinking does not equal
profit. Feeling equals profit. Emotions are profitable. Examining the
world and questioning how things are and how they ought to be is not
profitable. Loving someone is the choice. By doing that you seize your
free will and your existence, your undeniable lightness of being that
all of us possess. You own up to being a thinking thing. You own up to
being stardust.  

DREAMREADER: Love doesn’t last either, though. Neither the choice nor
the emotion. We were born with this notion inside of us. Universal
suffering. Universal ephemerality. All that is solid melts into air, all
that is sacred is profane.  
  
*Long pause*
  
DREAMREADER: I shouldn’t have said that. I’m sorry friend. I need to go
back now.  
  
THE DREAMREADER *walks off stage to the right.*  
  
### End Scene Two

***
  
## Scene Three: It Was 63 Degrees In Tokyo

### Setting

*The same stage, but now with heavy accents of golden light. There is
nothing projected on the background.* THE DREAMREADER *is clothed in
white, wearing round black sunglasses, and is in the center of the
stage. They have white gloves on, and are holding a teacup.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*visibly unraveled throughout*) Hello, friend. Things have
changed again. (*holds the teacup up*) I’m better now. I have gloves on.
I have my tea. I feel like myself now. All of myself. This is a good
feeling, friend. I wonder if you knew that tea and gloves were all that
it would take. But you probably didn’t. I know you and trust you,
friend. I trust you so much I think it’s time you knew my deepest,
darkest secret. I’ve told you too much, but I was still hiding things
from you. I hope you’ll forgive me.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: It’s time to tell you how I got to the End of the World,
friend. I can do that now.  
  
DREAMREADER: It was 63 degrees in a different city, with different
festival goers and different trains and different dates and different
loves. But they were still the same. The more things change the more
they stay the same.  
  
*Deep pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: It was 63 degrees in Tokyo. I told you 63 degrees was a
good temperature for things to happen. 63 degrees Fahrenheit, of course.
I don’t know why I still need to use that relic of the past. Fahrenheit
is such an American thing. So backwards and idiosyncratic. It advances
the System. Celsius is cleaner, sharper, more analytical and acute. So
instead of reminding myself of the patina inside of my soul, the one
that makes it impossible to read my own dreams,—thus your presence,
friend—whatever remains of that other self you saw before, well friend,
I know who you are, so why don’t we start again?  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: It was 17 degrees in Tokyo. There was a light rain, a
refreshing rain, even though it wasn’t the tropical rains of Japan’s
far-flung islands, and it certainly was a bit chilling, but it was a
clean rain. It washed the already near-spotless streets with the
reflection of the neon lights of Shinjuku and the grey suits of the
intellectuals of Hongo, with a flash of a floral pattern darting through
the water like some demented, manic, independent fish. I looked down
from sixteen stories up standing stalwartly at the window, observing the
pulse and flow, pulse and flow, of a civilization, of a framework, of a
system. A single golden butterfly floated down into the picture.
(*excitedly*) They had returned. New York was the first time I saw them.
After Taji’s departure I didn’t see them again. But they were there now,
friend!  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*returning to the same tone as before*) I walked down the
street with my umbrella over my shoulder, the butterflies drifting
around the edges of my coat as it flapped gently in the wind. I had been
waiting for them to join me once again, bring the frantic, glass-like
music to my head. I’m still not sure if it was the rain that brought
them, or something else; this type of cleansing wash was rare, and it
wasn’t raining in New York. But the point was they were back, and I felt
alive and acute once again. I felt normal, like now. A butterfly darted
out onto the street and swept around and up to the forefront signage.
The rain stopped for a minute. The sun was setting. The sky was turning
a deep, deep, red, the red of those that had perished under
robber-barons and the great wars. The clouds wafted away, and the rest
of the golden butterflies fluttered upward. Some said it was beautiful.
But efficiency, not beauty, matters.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: It was 17 degrees in Tokyo. 17 degrees is always a good
temperature for things to happen, friend.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: The shopkeepers strode out to look at the sky. No one knew
what was happening. This was new, like what it was going to create. Some
brave new world, some utopia of the working class, some crystal city
across the fruited plains and down the yellow road. I always thought
that the people staring upwards were trying to figure out what to name
it. It needed a name, one that had the entirety of humanity’s free will
invested inside of its power, a permanent legacy on the pale blue dot,
the pixel, the milquetoast mote of dust.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*manically*) That’s all we’re on friend. A pale blue dot.
That thought came to me, fluttered by me like the golden butterflies,
through the streets of Tokyo. That’s here. That’s home. That’s us. But I
didn’t need Sagan to tell me that. I didn’t need science to tell me
that. I saw it in the butterflies and the people and heard it in the
music, the heroes for a lonely day. It was a profound, humiliating
experience, one that puts your entire life into a single pixel, but that
changed. The pale blue dot was a pale red dot, a permanent record, an
everlasting tattoo on the skin of the universe, right there on the
street. And that told me what to name it. The End of the World.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*rising*) It was 17 degrees in Tokyo.  

*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*still rising*) I don’t remember what happened after that.
The butterflies tend to do that. Well, let me rephrase that: I don’t
remember exactly what happened. These golden insects make me focus on
the big picture. I like the big concepts. They work with who I am. I
flesh out the details only when they are salient to my plan. That
sunset, that rain, that temperature was salient. It allowed me to
continue what was started. I myself washed the already near-spotless
streets with the neon light of Shinjuku, and the grey suits of the
intellectuals of Hongo, this time with a flash of blood red darting
through the water like some glorious, stalwart, all-encompassing fish. I
washed past Tokyo and the Pacific, past the amber waves of grain and
wrapped around the green floating mountains of the dragon. The gold
swept across the universe and the collective consciousness of every
single living organism.  
  
DREAMREADER: (*peaking*) But what I do know was that I tasted it in the
air, that ringing metallic feel, like a crisp, unyielding, detached
coldness that was quickly replaced with an anxious heat and unsettling
gust, some testament to the greater good that does—or should—surround us
all.  
  
*Long pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*eerily calm*) It made me cuddle and cry and become manic
and escape. I loved, lost, and never loved at all. People blurred into
one, and one person blurred into many. I think there was some LSD and
other noxious cocktails involved once or twice, some lithium too, but
I’m not sure. I could be mistaken. I forgot and misremembered a lot of
things. That’s how you change history, after all. You consciously
rewrite both time and yourself. That’s some- thing I learned early on.
There’s nothing stopping you from doing that. Stop getting hung up on
yourself, the tangibles and the intangibles. Let the butterflies take
you away, friend. Well, if you can see them; I’m pretty sure only I can,
and I accept that. It is a destiny of being a sinner and a saint to
humanity, a victor, maybe even a martyr to some souls that have a patina
like mine. Either way, it doesn’t matter; it is a destiny I accept
readily, assuming that I’m still right about what events occurred.  
  
*Pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: But whatever it was, whatever really happened, whatever
sin-eating acts I may or may have not done, I trust them. I trust the
golden butterflies as they flew across the world. I trust you, friend. I
trust you to know that when I woke up the next day, I was at the End of
the World.  
  
*Very long pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: And it was all because it was 63 degrees.  
  
*Short pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: I’m sorry friend. This is the last time that I’m going to
be here. I need to go, again.  
  
*Very long pause.*  
  
DREAMREADER: (*pointing a finger gun at the audience*) This bird has
flown.  
  
*They turn and walk off stage to the left*  
  
### End Scene Three  

* * *
